readme.md, before:

# Audiobookshelf Mobile App

Audiobookshelf is a self-hosted audiobook and podcast server.

### Android (beta)

Get the Android app on the [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.audiobookshelf.app)

### iOS (early beta)

**Beta is currently full. Apple has a hard limit of 10k beta testers. Updates will be posted in Discord.**

Using Test Flight: https://testflight.apple.com/join/wiic7QIW **_(beta is full)_**

---

[Go to the main project repo github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf) or the project site [audiobookshelf.org](https://audiobookshelf.org)

Join us on [discord](https://discord.gg/pJsjuNCKRq)

**Requires an Audiobookshelf server to connect with**

<img alt="Screenshot" src="https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf-app/raw/master/screenshots/DeviceDemoScreens.png" />

## Contributing

This application is built using [NuxtJS](https://nuxtjs.org/) and [Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/) in order to run on both iOS and Android on the same code base.

### Localization

Thank you to [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/audiobookshelf/) for hosting our localization infrastructure pro-bono. If you want to see Audiobookshelf in your language, please help us localize. Additional information on helping with the translations [here](https://www.audiobookshelf.org/faq#how-do-i-help-with-translations). <a href="https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/audiobookshelf/"> <img src="https://hosted.weblate.org/widget/audiobookshelf/abs-mobile-app/horizontal-auto.svg" alt="Translation status" /> </a>

### Windows Environment Setup for Android

Required Software:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) (version 20)
- Code editor of choice([VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/download), etc)
- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)
- [Android SDK](https://developer.android.com/studio)

<details>
<summary>Install the required software with <a href=(https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/package-manager/winget/#production-recommended)>winget</a></summary>

<p>
Note: This requires a PowerShell prompt with winget installed.  You should be able to copy and paste the code block to install.  If you use an elevated PowerShell prompt, UAC will not pop up during the installs.

```PowerShell
winget install -e --id Git.Git; `
winget install -e --id Microsoft.VisualStudioCode; `
winget install -e --id  Google.AndroidStudio; `
winget install -e --id OpenJS.NodeJS --version 20.11.0;
```

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_windows_winget.png)

</p>
</details>
<br>

Your Windows environment should now be set up and ready to proceed!

### Mac Environment Setup for Android

Required Software:

- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) (version 20)
- [Cocoapods](https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html#installation)
- [Android SDK](https://developer.android.com/studio)

<details>
<summary>Install the required software with <a href=(https://brew.sh/)>homebrew</a></summary>

<p>

```zsh
brew install android-studio node cocoapods
```

</p>
</details>

### Start working on the Android app

Clone or fork the project from terminal or powershell and `cd` into the project directory.

Install the required node packages:

```shell
npm install
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_android_npm_install.png)

</details>
<br>

Generate static web app:

```shell
npm run generate
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_android_npm_run.png)

</details>
<br>

Copy web app into native android/ios folders:

```shell
npx cap sync
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_android_cap_sync.png)

</details>
<br>

Open Android Studio:

```shell
npx cap open android
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_cap_android.png)

</details>
<br>

Start coding!

### Mac Environment Setup for iOS

Required Software:

- [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Cocoapods](https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html#installation)

### Start working on the iOS app

Clone or fork the project in the terminal and `cd` into the project directory.

Install the required node packages:

```shell
npm install
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_ios_npm_install.png)

</details>
<br>

Generate static web app:

```shell
npm run generate
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_ios_npm_generate.png)

</details>
<br>

Copy web app into native android/ios folders:

```shell
npx cap sync
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_ios_cap_sync.png)

</details>
<br>

Open Xcode:

```shell
npx cap open ios
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_ios_cap_open.png)

</details>
<br>

Start coding!

Commit message:

Working media3 migration (#2)
* fix: session resumption issues

Fixes session resumption problems by altering logic when updating notification and when user swipes away application.

Should fix
https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf-app/issues/1309

* Realized the playstate is not synced with UI when the application is resumed after being killed either in the app switcher by the user or in the background. This means the service tracking/syncronizing progress isn't updated either and the UI doesn't have an active player. With this change the playstate is synced when the app is resumed and the ui service is ready.

* Added playback sync state to more places and added a fallback to last server session if no local session is found.

Added playback state sync for android auto so the playback can always resume from local/local session with remote media/ or most rescent server session.

* fest: rewrite styling and functionality

* fest: rewrite styling and functionality

* working with bad animation

* small fixes

* commiting happy changes

* working

* working

* fix nav bar

* move the progress bar in mini player

* Fixed hieght, search and side bar

* working app

* fixes

* refactor android auto media browser

* working chapter queue

* feat: updated justfile and working chapter viewing

* feat fixed now playing

* fully cleaned up

* workin

* UI Cleanup

* fixed book and list centering

* ui cleanup

* working but bad notification image

* fix layout of player

* working ish

* Working android auto playback

* feat: fully working media3

* anr fix

* fix media notification

* feat: working android auto broken casting

* more fixes

* feat: workingish cast

* cleanup

* working

* deps upgrade

* android upgrade

* package and file rename

* working new icons

* workin new name

* semi working.

* feat: working casting on default player

* chore: switch to styled receiver

* playstore readiness

readme.md, after:

# TomeSonic Mobile App

TomeSonic is a self-hosted audiobook and podcast server application.

### Android (beta)

Get the Android app on the [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.audiobookshelf.app)

### iOS (early beta)

**Beta is currently full. Apple has a hard limit of 10k beta testers. Updates will be posted in Discord.**

Using Test Flight: https://testflight.apple.com/join/wiic7QIW **_(beta is full)_**

---

This is a fork of the original Audiobookshelf project. For the original project, visit [github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf](https://github.com/advplyr/audiobookshelf) or [audiobookshelf.org](https://audiobookshelf.org)

**Requires an Audiobookshelf server to connect with**

<img alt="Screenshot" src="https://github.com/AwsomeFox/tomesonic-app/raw/master/screenshots/DeviceDemoScreens.png" />

## Contributing

This application is built using [NuxtJS](https://nuxtjs.org/) and [Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/) in order to run on both iOS and Android on the same code base.

### Localization

This fork utilizes the original Audiobookshelf localization infrastructure. Thank you to [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/audiobookshelf/) for hosting the localization infrastructure pro-bono. If you want to see TomeSonic in your language, please help localize the original project at [audiobookshelf.org](https://www.audiobookshelf.org/faq#how-do-i-help-with-translations).

### Windows Environment Setup for Android

Required Software:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) (version 20)
- Code editor of choice([VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/download), etc)
- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)
- [Android SDK](https://developer.android.com/studio)

<details>
<summary>Install the required software with <a href=(https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/package-manager/winget/#production-recommended)>winget</a></summary>

<p>
Note: This requires a PowerShell prompt with winget installed.  You should be able to copy and paste the code block to install.  If you use an elevated PowerShell prompt, UAC will not pop up during the installs.

```PowerShell
winget install -e --id Git.Git; `
winget install -e --id Microsoft.VisualStudioCode; `
winget install -e --id  Google.AndroidStudio; `
winget install -e --id OpenJS.NodeJS --version 20.11.0;
```

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_windows_winget.png)

</p>
</details>
<br>

Your Windows environment should now be set up and ready to proceed!

### Mac Environment Setup for Android

Required Software:

- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) (version 20)
- [Cocoapods](https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html#installation)
- [Android SDK](https://developer.android.com/studio)

<details>
<summary>Install the required software with <a href=(https://brew.sh/)>homebrew</a></summary>

<p>

```zsh
brew install android-studio node cocoapods
```

</p>
</details>

### Start working on the Android app

Clone or fork the project from terminal or powershell and `cd` into the project directory.

Install the required node packages:

```shell
npm install
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_android_npm_install.png)

</details>
<br>

Generate static web app:

```shell
npm run generate
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_android_npm_run.png)

</details>
<br>

Copy web app into native android/ios folders:

```shell
npx cap sync
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_android_cap_sync.png)

</details>
<br>

Open Android Studio:

```shell
npx cap open android
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_cap_android.png)

</details>
<br>

Start coding!

### Mac Environment Setup for iOS

Required Software:

- [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Cocoapods](https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html#installation)

### Start working on the iOS app

Clone or fork the project in the terminal and `cd` into the project directory.

Install the required node packages:

```shell
npm install
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_ios_npm_install.png)

</details>
<br>

Generate static web app:

```shell
npm run generate
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_ios_npm_generate.png)

</details>
<br>

Copy web app into native android/ios folders:

```shell
npx cap sync
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_ios_cap_sync.png)

</details>
<br>

Open Xcode:

```shell
npx cap open ios
```

<details>
<summary>Expand for screenshot</summary>

![](/screenshots/dev_setup_ios_cap_open.png)

</details>
<br>

Start coding!
